Step two is building the WBS, the Work Breakdown Structure.
So first,
we want to make sure that we understand everything that needs to be done,
and itemize all the tasks, everything, not some of the items,
make sure you itemize all of the items no matter how
silly or obscure you think they are, and we're going to use the WBS,
the Work Breakdown Approach to document all those items.
And just to kind of give you a little definition here,
it's a hierarchical and incremental decomposition of the projects into phases,
deliverables, and work packages.
They can be simple, and they can be very complex.
Maybe task 1 has below it task 1.
1., 1.
2, 1.
3, and maybe 1.
3 has 1.
31 and 1.
32, so you can make it as detailed as you like,
and in this class, we're going to keep it relatively simple,
but it is a real nice way of decomposing tasks into subtasks,
and that usually gives you a better handle on estimation and scheduling.
Again, if a task was just too big,
it's really hard to figure out how long it might take to do.
So we're going to show each WBS task and subtask that
if we execute all of these tasks, that will it,
in fact, fulfill the project deliverables as outlined in our PDD.
So, once you complete all the tasks, and you've listed them all out in the WBS,
subtasks, whatever, you want to stand back for a moment,
pull the team together and say, if we do all this stuff,
will we accomplish the project, so you're kind of validating again,
okay, do I have everything here I need to have here?
So it's that 100% rule that's real important,
if we finish all these tasks, will we in fact be complete with the project?
It's a great little, little checklist to go through.
If not, then you're going to be missing some tasks,
and if yes, you're complete, so your WBS is complete and you can move on.
Okay, well let me show you a very simple example on the next slide.
Here is a very simple example of a work breakdown structure.
So you can see at the top that I have a column for Item # and Description,
item numbers, I have a 100 section and I have a 200 section below,
so it's a very simple layout, and I'm trying to itemize all these tasks,
so you and your team will come up with all of these tasks to itemize.
I want to call your attention to 100.
40, this is just an add or modify additional tables and fields in the database,
this is a particular task.
Now, as an example, if the team asks several questions,
like I am not sure I understand, can you tell me more,
it's a little confusing,
that is an indicator that you may need to decompose that
particular task and maybe this 100.
40 turns into.
41,. 42,. 43 with more granular subtasks under it.
So that's always the indication,
if you look at a task and everyone nods and goes,
yep, that's what we're going to go do,
then it's probably at the lowest level of decomposition that you need.
So always remember this is a living document,
and as we progress in this section,
we're going to be adding more columns for each task.
As you do with any project, you'll be also adding tasks,
maybe even removing some tasks, and some tasks,
as we've talked about, will spawn subtasks. Okay, let's move on to step three.